{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Dragon Systems}{\creatim\yr1997\mo7\dy23\hr11\min6}{\version1}{\edmins5}{\nofpages0}
{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49203}}\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0 \fet0\sectd \linex0 {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 \f4\fs20 {
\b\f5\fs24 Dragon NaturallySpeaking}{\b\f5\fs28 \'99
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 British English Edition
\par }\pard \tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\f5 
\par Welcome to Dragon NaturallySpeaking}{\fs13\up10 \'99}{\f5 
, the first large-vocabulary, continuous-speech, general-purpose dictation system. This file contains last-minute information that is not included in the documentation. The following information applies to Dragon NaturallySpeaking 1.0.
\par }\pard \li720\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\b\f5\fs24\ul 
\par }\pard \tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\b\f5\fs24\ul Contents}{\f5 
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\f5 Getting Started with Dragon NaturallySpeaking
\par Known Problems (by Feature)
\par Universal Microphone Adapter
\par Recommended Sound Cards
\par Troubleshooting
\par Tips for DragonDictate}{\f1\up6 \'e2}{\f5  Users
\par }\pard \li720\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\b\f5\fs24\ul 
\par }\pard \tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\b\f5\fs24\ul Getting Started with Dragon NaturallySpeaking
\par }{\f5 
\par Dragon Systems recommends that you read the }{\i\f5 Dragon NaturallySpeaking Getting Started}{\f5  guide for information about installing, setting up, and learning to use Dragon NaturallySpeaking.
\par 
\par After reading the guide, you will need about one hour to complete the following tasks:
\par 
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\f5 1.\tab Install Dragon NaturallySpeaking.
\par 
\par 2.\tab Use the Audio Setup wizard to test and adjust your audio system.
\par 
\par 3.\tab Complete the initial General Training session to teach Dragon NaturallySpeaking how you speak.}{\b\f5 
\par }{\f5 
\par 4.\tab Use the Vocabulary Builder to teach Dragon NaturallySpeaking how you write.
\par 
\par }\pard \tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\b\f5 Checking Your Sound Card}{\f5 
\par Dragon NaturallySpeaking is sensitive to the quality of your sound card. Before using Dragon NaturallySpeaking, you should check the list of currently recommended sound cards later in this Readme file. If Audio Setup detects that your sound card signal qu
ality is poor, or if you find later that Dragon NaturallySpeaking seems to run very slowly, you may want to consider installing one of the approved sound cards.
\par }\pard \li720\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\b\f5\fs24\ul 
\par }\pard \tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\b\f5\fs24\ul Known Problems (by Feature)
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\b\f5 
\par Correction}{\f5 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 
When you select a specified number of characters and then select additional characters in the opposite direction, Dragon NaturallySpeaking selects one less character than you said. For example, if you say "Select Next 5 Characters" and then say "Select Pr
evious 3 Characters," two (not three) characters are selected. This is standard Windows behaviour. In WordPad you can see this behaviour when using the keyboard to select text. (Try pressing S
hift+Right Arrow five times. Then press Shift+Left Arrow three times.)
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o\tab }{\f5 When you correct text that is next to non-alphabetic characters, the spacing may be wrong after the corrected text is inserted.
\par }{\b\f5 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 When you close the Correction dialogue box, Dragon NaturallySpeaking can sometimes take 10-15 seconds to adapt. This behaviour is normal and, except for the delay, will not affect performance.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\f5 Dictation}{\f5 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 
Dragon NaturallySpeaking may take longer than usual to recognise the first phrase you dictate after starting the program. To minimise this behaviour, try closing one or more applications before starting Dragon NaturallySpeaking, or add more physical memor
y to your computer.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 
To dictate a phrase that begins with the word "select" or "correct," you must hold down the Shift key to force the word to be recognised as dictation. (You can say the word "select" in the middle of a phrase and it will be recognised as dictation.)
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 If you are having trouble because voice commands are mistaken for dictation, try pressing and holding down the Ctrl key while you say a command to temporarily disable dictation. 
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o\tab }{\f5 Dragon NaturallySpeaking delays recognition of any words you say while moving or resizing the window until you have finished moving or resizing the window.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 
Some punctuation marks and special characters can be pronounced in multiple ways, but only one form appears in the Results box and recognition history window. For example, you can say "close bracket," "close parenthesis," "right bracket," or one of three 
other pronunciations, but all variations will be recognised as "close bracket." This behaviour is harmless, and does not affect dictation or adaptation that occurs when you use the Correction dialogue box.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 Dragon NaturallySpeaking can sometimes get out o
f sync with the text in the document window. For example, when you select text by voice, Dragon NaturallySpeaking may select the right number of characters but not the exact text. Or if you move to the end of the document and start dictating, the text may
 appear slightly before the end of the document. To resynchronise Dragon NaturallySpeaking with the document, select any text, copy it to the Clipboard, and paste it back into the document.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 If extra small words (for example, "and," "in," and "the") are f
requently inserted in your document when you pause, Dragon NaturallySpeaking may be interpreting the sound of your breath as speech. Try moving the microphone slightly farther from your mouth and to the side. If this helps, running General Training again 
with the microphone in the new position may further improve performance.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 The dollar symbol is not in the Vocabulary for this release, but you can add it by typing it into the Vocabulary Editor as $ with the spoken form "dollar sign".  The next time you d
ictate this the symbol will appear in your document, however it will behave like a normal word and a following space will automatically be generated; you will have to say No Space before dictating the numbers, it might help further if you preface the firs
t number with the word 'Numeral'.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o\tab }{\f5\cf1 Dragon NaturallySpeaking does not yet support the format of UK post codes.  However you can spell them using the alpha bravo words.  For example, say "Caps on whiskey foxtrot one space bar two romeo alpha Caps off" for W
F1 2RA.  Saying two alpha bravo words in succession should force both to be written out as letters, rather than as the word itself.  In case this doesn't happen, say the word 'Letter' before the alpha bravo word.
\par }{\f5 
\par }{\b\f5 File Management}{\f5 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 
Do not open or change any of the files in the NatSpeak Users folder, nor add files to this folder. Modifying the contents of this folder will adversely affect saving your speech files. Any files added to this folder will be automatically deleted when you 
save your speech files.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\f5 General Training}{\f5 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 You may have to repeat the very first sentence.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\f5 \tab 
If you find you are having problems with recognition of certain words during General Training, it is very important not to change your natural accent.  It sometimes helps to break the phrases up or to wait to see if a phrase is accepted before moving on.
  If, after repeated attempts, the word is still being rejected, you should use the "Skip Word" button.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 Clicking the Skip Word button may not appear to work before a punctuation mark. Try clicking Skip Word again.  You cannot skip words in the first stage of General Training.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o\tab }{\f5 If you are dictating the punctuation during General Training then you may find you have to dictate "space bar" sometimes, eg after a hyphen.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 Sometimes screen savers can interfere with General Training. If you use a screen saver, you may want to turn it off while you run General Training. (This recommendation also applies to the Quick Tour.)
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o\tab }{\f5 Due to copyright technicalities, there is only one training text in
 this product, if you see references to running General Training again and choosing supplemental texts, please be advised that this does not apply to this product, you will be asked to read the Arthur C. Clarke text again.}{\b\f5\fs24 
\par 
\par }{\b\f5 Vocabulary Builder
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o\tab }{\f5 
If your text contains words that are normally lower case, but happen to be upper case in your text (eg they are at the beginning of sentence) they will appear in the list of found words.  Be careful not to add them to your Vocabulary unless you really mea
n to do so.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\f5 \tab You do not actually have to train all the words on the list, you can just highlight them and then click Done
\par  
\par }{\b\f5 Printing}{\f5 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 Sometimes the document window may not keep the original margin settings when you print. You can verify the margin settings before printing a document by opening Page Setup from the File menu.
\par 
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360 {\b\f5\fs24 o}{\f5 \tab }{\f5\cf1 If you paste text produced in the NaturallySpeaking window into an empty window in a word processor, such as Microsoft Word, the paper size may be set to American letter size, in the UK your p
rinter will most likely be using A4 paper.  You will therefore need to reset the paper size in your word processor application to A4 before printing your document.  Also, the language to be used by the spell checker will be set to English (United States),
 which is the spelling standard used by this version of NaturallySpeaking.  You should reset your spell checker language in your word processor after pasting in the document created in NaturallySpeaking.
\par \tab This will also happen if you save a document produced by NaturallySpeaking in rich text format ("rtf") and then open it into an empty window in a word processor.
\par \tab You could try going to the Page Setup dialogue box under the File menu in NaturallySpeaking, and setting the paper size to A4 before you start creating a document, this should also provide a solution to the problem.
\par \tab If, however, you import the text as a text ("txt") file or if you paste the text or read an rtf file into a window that already contains some text, both the paper size and the language will retain the values previously set for that window.
\par \tab If you wish to print out this ReadMe file, go first into the Page Setup dialogue box, accessed from the File menu and change the paper size setting to A4.
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\f5 
\par }{\b\f5 Quick Tour
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o\tab }{\f5 
The Quick Tour is the same as the one used in the US edition of this product.  It contains some references to features that only exist in that product, such as ways of dictating punctuation etc.  Please make sure you refer to the Quick Reference Card supp
lied with your product for the correct punctuation commands.  The Quick Tour is still a good way for you to learn the general workings of the product.
\par }{\b\f5 
\par Vocabulary Tools}{\f5 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 Vocabulary Builder treats special characters, for example @ and #, as unprintable char
acters. If Vocabulary Builder finds special characters when processing documents, the words that contain these characters appear as new words in the New Words dialogue box. You should not add any new words to your vocabulary that contain unprintable chara
cters (usually shown as vertical bars or boxes).
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 The Correction dialogue box does not add new words that contain punctuation marks other than the standard spelling alphabet (letters, digits, Cap, space bar, apostrophe, hyphen, and dash). To add words tha
t contain other punctuation marks or symbols, for example, VX/950C or Employee#, you can use Vocabulary Editor.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\b\f5 \tab }{\f5 Using the Vocabulary to process text files larger than 500K can cause an out-of-memory error. If this happens, close one or more applications or free up some disk space, and try again.
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\b\f5\fs24\ul Universal Microphone Adapter
\par }{\f5 
\par Dragon NaturallySpeaking comes with a high-quality microphone and a universal adapter box. Using the universal adapter is optional. However, the universal adapter can fine tune the
 audio performance of many sound cards, and will greatly improve the audio performance of some sound cards.
\par 
\par If you choose not to use the adapter, and the Audio Setup wizard detects problems with your sound system or you experience audio problems when you run Dragon NaturallySpeaking, you should connect the universal adapter, run the Audio Setup wizard again, an
d then run General Training to do a few minutes of supplemental training.
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\f5 
\par }{\b\f5 Connecting the Universal Adapter
\par }\pard \tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\f5 
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\f5 1.\tab Open the adapter box and insert two AA alkaline batteries (batteries are not provided). Alkaline batteries should last for six to nine months.
\par 
\par 2.\tab The microphone has two cables, one for the speakers and one for the microphone. Connect the microphone cable to the female connector on the universal adapter box.
\par 
\par 3.\tab Plug the other cable into the microphone jack on your computer or sound system.}{\b\f5 
\par }{\f5 
\par 4. \tab Test the batteries by pressing the test button. If the batteries are okay, the LED will light up.
\par }\pard \tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\f5 
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\f5 5.\tab Make sure the adapter output switch is set to high. (Later, if you experience audio problems, you can try setting this switch to low.)
\par }\pard \tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\f5 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24\ul Recommended Sound Cards
\par }{\f5 
\par Dragon Systems has tested and approved the following sound cards and built-in sound systems for compatibility with Dragon NaturallySpeaking:
\par 
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\b\f5\fs24 o}{\f1 \tab }{\f5 Sound Blaster 16}{\f1\up6 \'e2}{\f5  PnP (Creative Labs, Inc.)
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\f1 \tab }{\f5 Sound Blaster}{\f1\up6 \'e2}{\f5  AWE32}{\fs13\up10 \'99}{\f5  PnP (Creative Labs, Inc.)
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\f1 \tab }{\f5 Sound Blaster AWE64}{\fs13\up10 \'99}{\f5  PnP (Creative Labs, Inc.)
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\f1 \tab }{\f5 Sound Blaster AWE64}{\fs13\up10 \'99}{\f5  Gold PnP (Creative Labs, Inc.)
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\f1 \tab }{\f5 Audiotrix}{\fs13\up10 \'99}{\f5  Pro (MediaTrix Peripherals, Inc.)
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\f1 \tab }{\f5 Ensoniq}{\fs13\up10 \'99}{\f5  SoundScape}{\fs13\up10 \'99}{\f5  VIVO 90 (must be purchased directly from Ensoniq, Corp.)
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\f1 \tab }{\f5 ExpertMedia Med 3240 with OPTi chip set (Expert Media)
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\f1 \tab }{\f5 Turtle Beach}{\fs13\up10 \'99}{\f5  Tropez Plus (Turtle Beach Systems)
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\f1 \tab }{\f5 Micron Millennia}{\fs13\up10 \'99}{\f5  Transport}{\fs13\up10 \'99}{\f5  XPE (portable computer with built-in audio system)
\par }{\b\f5\fs24 o}{\f1 \tab }{\f5 Toshiba Tecra}{\fs13\up10 \'99}{\f5  740 CDT (portable computer with built-in audio system)
\par }\pard \tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\f5 
\par To use any sound card properly, make sure you turn off the Automatic Gain Control (AGC).
\par 
\par }{\b\f5 Hardware Compatibility List}{\f5 
\par Dragon Systems continually tests different sound cards and computers with built-in audio systems for compatibility, and updates the list of recommended hardware accordingly. You can find the most current list of Dragon-certified sound cards and computers 
on the Dragon Systems Support home page (http://www.naturalspeech.com or http://www.dragonsys.com). 
\par 
\par Sound cards not classified as "Dragon Certified Hardware" may or may not work with Dragon NaturallySpeaking. If you experience problems with a sound card that is not on the list, you can call your registered reseller.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5\fs24\ul Troubleshooting
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\b\f5 
\par }\pard \tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\f5 Dragon NaturallySpeaking maintains an error log (Dragon.log), which is normally located in the installation folder called NatSpeak (usually C:\\
NatSpeak). If you need to contact technical support, you may be asked to send a copy of this file for problem analysis.
\par 
\par When you use the Audio Setup wizard, Dragon NaturallySpeaking records your voice as you read aloud for the microphone volume test. Results of the test are saved in the Audio.wav file (usually C:\\NatSpeak\\
Program). If you need to contact technical support about problems with your sound system, you may be asked to send a copy of the Audio.wav and Dragon.log files for analysis.
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\b\f5 
\par }\pard \tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\b\f5\fs24\ul Tips for DragonDictate Users
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\b\f5 
\par }\pard \tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\f5 If you have been using DragonDictate, you may find the following tips handy for learning the differences between DragonDictate and Dragon NaturallySpeaking.
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\b\f5 
\par Using Dragon NaturallySpeaking
\par }\pard \tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320 {\f5 If you are used to pausing after every word, you may find it takes some time to adjust to speaking continuously. Try closing your eyes while you dictate, or imagine that you are talking to another person.
\par 
\par Dragon NaturallySpeaking has a new set of voice commands. Some commands resemble DragonDictate commands, and some do not. You may find the }{\i\f5 Dragon NaturallySpeaking Quick Reference}{\f5  card useful for learning the new commands.
\par 
\par Dragon NaturallySpeaking does not have separate dictation and command modes. To say a menu or button command, simply say "Click" followed by the name of the menu o
r command. For example, say "Click File" to open the File menu, or say "Click OK" to activate the OK button.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5 Tuning Recognition Accuracy
\par }{\f5 
Dragon NaturallySpeaking does not adapt continually to your speech, so it is not mandatory to correct recognition errors as they occur. You can ignore recognition errors, or edit or delete the mistakes in your document without worrying about affecting per
formance. Dragon NaturallySpeaking adapts only when you use the Train Words dialogue box, make corrections in the Correction dialogue box, run General Training, or use Vocabulary Builder.
\par 
\par Dragon NaturallySpeaking assumes you pronounce words the way they are spelled. To dictate words that have different written and spoken forms, define dictation shortcuts using Vocabulary Editor.
\par 
\par See the online Help topic, "Improving Recognition Accuracy," for more information about tuning recognition performance.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5 Feature Differences Between DragonDictate and Dragon NaturallySpeaking
\par }{\f5 Dragon NaturallySpeaking does not support dictating directly into another application. After dictating in the document window, you can copy the text and paste it into another application window.
\par 
\par Besides dictation shorthands, Dragon NaturallySpeaking does not support creating macros.
\par 
\par In Dragon NaturallySpeaking you can say What Can I Say as you dictate to display all voice commands available in the current context. You can also use Vocabulary Editor to view the entire active dictation vocabulary, including dictation commands and punct
uation marks. (You cannot change the names or actions of voice commands, and Dragon NaturallySpeaking does not support the DragonDictate Vocabulary Manager.)
\par 
\par To add new words to the active dictation vocabulary, open the text file containing the words in Dragon NaturallySpeaking, and then use the Find New Words command (Tools menu) to add the words. (You cannot import words from a .ddx file.)
\par 
\par Dragon NaturallySpeaking does not support dictating non-printing keystrokes (for example, F1, Backspace, Delete). Also, you cannot include non-printing keystrokes (for example, Enter) in a dictation shortcut. 
\par 
\par You can use the Switch to Next/Previous Window commands to switch between running applications, but you cannot launch applications by voice.
\par 
\par You can say Undo That to undo the action of the last command, and you can improve recognition of a command by using Train Words, but you cannot correct a misrecognised command.
\par 
\par You cannot move the mouse by voice.
\par 
\par Dragon NaturallySpeaking supports a single user.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5 Finer Points
\par }{\f5 In Dragon NaturallySpeaking, you use the Scratch That command to delete the last word or words you said between pauses. To delete a single word, select the word and say "Delete That."
\par 
\par You do not need to say "apostrophe-ess" to form a possessive, although you can. If you say, for example, "Joe's restaurant," Dragon NaturallySpeaking types the possessive form. If Dragon NaturallySpeaking rec
ognises a plural as a possessive, try selecting the word and dictating it again so that Dragon NaturallySpeaking can choose the next likely spelling.
\par 
\par You can spell as you dictate by using the alpha-bravo alphabet.
\par 
\par Use natural spelling (the letters of the alphabet) in the Correction dialogue box. Letters are recognised more quickly than the alpha-bravo alphabet during correction.
\par 
\par Dragon NaturallySpeaking does not have the Oops command. To view the recognition history, click the black arrow in the document window status bar.
\par 
\par The Dragon NaturallySpeaking document window is similar to WordPad, which is a Microsoft}{\f1\up6 \'e2}{\f5  Windows}{\f1\up6 \'e2}{\f5 
 accessory. For Help on Dragon NaturallySpeaking features that are not speech related, you can look at the WordPad Help.
\par 
\par You may be able to run Dragon NaturallySpeaking and DragonDictate for Windows simultaneously, but not in a hands-free manner. Dragon Systems has not tested this configuration extensively, and does not support it.
\par 
\par 
\par Dragon Systems is a registered trademark, and NaturallySpeaking is a trademark of Dragon Systems, Inc. All other trademarks are of their respective companies. }{\f1 \'e3}{\f5  1997 Dragon Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
\par }}