{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\deftab720{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil MS Sans Serif;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2 System;}{\f3\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2 Arial;}{\f5\froman\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f6\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\qc\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs24\b Dragon NaturallySpeaking\plain\f4\fs28\b \'99
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b Personal Edition
\par \pard\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20 
\par Welcome to Dragon NaturallySpeaking\plain\f5\fs13\up10 \'99\plain\f4\fs20 , the first large-vocabulary, continuous-speech, general-purpose dictation system. This file contains last-minute information that is not included in the documentation. The following information applies to Dragon NaturallySpeaking 1.0.
\par \pard\li720\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs24\b\ul 
\par \pard\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs24\b\ul Contents\plain\f4\fs20 
\par \pard\li360\fi-360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20 Getting Started with Dragon NaturallySpeaking
\par Known Problems (by Feature)
\par Universal Microphone Adapter
\par Recommended Sound Cards
\par Troubleshooting
\par Tips for DragonDictate\plain\f6\fs20\up6 \'e2\plain\f4\fs20  Users
\par \pard\li720\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs24\b\ul 
\par \pard\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs24\b\ul Getting Started with Dragon NaturallySpeaking
\par \plain\f4\fs20 
\par Dragon Systems recommends that you read the \plain\f4\fs20\i Dragon NaturallySpeaking Getting Started\plain\f4\fs20  guide for information about installing, setting up, and learning to use Dragon NaturallySpeaking.
\par 
\par After reading the guide, you will need about one hour to complete the following tasks:
\par 
\par \pard\li360\fi-360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20 1.\tab Install Dragon NaturallySpeaking.
\par 
\par 2.\tab Use the Audio Setup wizard to test and adjust your audio system.
\par 
\par 3.\tab Complete the initial General Training session to teach Dragon NaturallySpeaking how you speak.\plain\f4\fs20\b 
\par \plain\f4\fs20 
\par 4.\tab Use the Vocabulary Builder to teach Dragon NaturallySpeaking how you write.
\par 
\par \pard\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20\b Checking Your Sound Card\plain\f4\fs20 
\par Dragon NaturallySpeaking is sensitive to the quality of your sound card. Before using Dragon NaturallySpeaking, you should check the list of currently recommended sound cards later in this Readme file. If Audio Setup detects that your sound card signal quality is poor, or if you find later that Dragon NaturallySpeaking seems to run very slowly, you may want to consider installing one of the approved sound cards.
\par \pard\li720\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs24\b\ul 
\par \pard\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs24\b\ul Known Problems (by Feature)
\par \pard\li360\fi-360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20\b 
\par Correction\plain\f4\fs20 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f4\fs20\b \tab \plain\f4\fs20 When you select a specified number of characters and then select additional characters in the opposite direction, Dragon NaturallySpeaking selects one less character than you said. For example, if you say "Select Next 5 Characters" and then say "Select Previous 3 Characters," two (not three) characters are selected. This is standard Windows behavior. In WordPad you can see this behavior when using the keyboard to select text. (Try pressing Shift+Right Arrow five times. Then press Shift+Left Arrow three times.)
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\tab \plain\f4\fs20 When you correct text that is next to non-alphabetic characters, the spacing may be wrong after the corrected text is inserted.
\par \plain\f4\fs20\b 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f4\fs20\b \tab \plain\f4\fs20 When you close the Correction dialog box, Dragon NaturallySpeaking can sometimes take 10-15 seconds to adapt. This behavior is normal and, except for the delay, will not affect performance.
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs20\b Dictation\plain\f4\fs20 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f4\fs20\b \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Dragon NaturallySpeaking may take longer than usual to recognize the first phrase you dictate after starting the program. To minimize this behavior, try closing one or more applications before starting Dragon NaturallySpeaking, or add more physical memory to your computer.
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f4\fs20\b \tab \plain\f4\fs20 To dictate a phrase that begins with the word "select" or "correct," you must hold down the Shift key to force the word to be recognized as dictation. (You can say the word "select" in the middle of a phrase and it will be recognized as dictation.)
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f4\fs20\b \tab \plain\f4\fs20 If you are having trouble because voice commands are mistaken for dictation, try pressing and holding down the Ctrl key while you say a command to temporarily disable dictation. 
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\tab \plain\f4\fs20 Dragon NaturallySpeaking delays recognition of any words you say while moving or resizing the window until you are done moving or resizing the window.
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f4\fs20\b \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Some punctuation marks and special characters can be pronounced in multiple ways, but only one form appears in the Results box and recognition history window. For example, you can say "close paren," "close parenthesis," "right paren," or one of three other pronunciations, but all variations will be recognized as "close paren." This behavior is harmless, and does not affect dictation or adaptation that occurs when you use the Correction dialog box.
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f4\fs20\b \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Dragon NaturallySpeaking can sometimes get out of sync with the text in the document window. For example, when you select text by voice, Dragon NaturallySpeaking may select the right number of characters but not the exact text. Or if you move to the end of the document and start dictating, the text may appear slightly before the end of the document. To resynchronize Dragon NaturallySpeaking with the document, select any text, copy it to the Clipboard, and paste it back into the document.
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f4\fs20\b \tab \plain\f4\fs20 If extra small words (for example, "and," "in," and "the") are frequently inserted in your document when you pause, Dragon NaturallySpeaking may be interpreting the sound of your breath as speech. Try moving the microphone slightly farther from your mouth and to the side. If this helps, running General Training again with the microphone in the new position may further improve performance.
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs20\b File Management\plain\f4\fs20 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f4\fs20\b \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Do not open or change any of the files in the NatSpeak Users folder, nor add files to this folder. Modifying the contents of this folder will adversely affect saving your speech files. Any files added to this folder will be automatically deleted when you save your speech files.
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs20\b General Training\plain\f4\fs20 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f4\fs20\b \tab \plain\f4\fs20 You may have to repeat the very first sentence.
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f4\fs20\b \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Clicking the Skip Word button may not appear to work before a punctuation mark. Try clicking Skip Word again.
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f4\fs20\b \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Sometimes screen savers can interfere with General Training. If you use a screen saver, you may want to turn it off while you run General Training. (This recommendation also applies to the Quick Tour.)
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs20\b Printing\plain\f4\fs20 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f4\fs20\b \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Sometimes the document window may not keep the original margin settings when you print. You can verify the margin settings before printing a document by opening Page Setup from the File menu.
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs20\b Vocabulary Tools\plain\f4\fs20 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f4\fs20\b \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Vocabulary Builder treats special characters, for example @ and #, as unprintable characters. If Vocabulary Builder finds special characters when processing documents, the words that contain these characters appear as new words in the New Words dialog box. You should not add any new words to your vocabulary that contain unprintable characters (usually shown as vertical bars or boxes).
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f4\fs20\b \tab \plain\f4\fs20 The Correction dialog box does not add new words that contain punctuation marks other than the standard spelling alphabet (letters, digits, Cap, space bar, apostrophe, hyphen, and dash). To add words that contain other punctuation marks or symbols, for example, VX/950C or Employee#, you can use Vocabulary Editor.
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f4\fs20\b \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Using the Vocabulary to process text files larger than 500K can cause an out-of-memory error. If this happens, close one or more applications or free up some disk space, and try again.
\par 
\par \pard\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs24\b\ul Universal Microphone Adapter
\par \plain\f4\fs20 
\par Dragon NaturallySpeaking comes with a high-quality microphone and a universal adapter box. Using the universal adapter is optional. However, the universal adapter can fine tune the audio performance of many sound cards, and will greatly improve the audio performance of some sound cards.
\par 
\par If you choose not to use the adapter, and the Audio Setup wizard detects problems with your sound system or you experience audio problems when you run Dragon NaturallySpeaking, you should connect the universal adapter, run the Audio Setup wizard again, and then run General Training to do a few minutes of supplemental training.
\par \pard\li360\fi-360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20 
\par \plain\f4\fs20\b Connecting the Universal Adapter
\par \pard\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20 
\par \pard\li360\fi-360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20 1.\tab Open the adapter box and insert two AA alkaline batteries (batteries are not provided). Alkaline batteries should last for six to nine months.
\par 
\par 2.\tab The microphone has two cables, one for the speakers and one for the microphone. Connect the microphone cable to the female connector on the universal adapter box.
\par 
\par 3.\tab Plug the other cable into the microphone jack on your computer or sound system.\plain\f4\fs20\b 
\par \plain\f4\fs20 
\par 4. \tab Test the batteries by pressing the test button. If the batteries are okay, the LED will light up.
\par \pard\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20 
\par \pard\li360\fi-360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20 5.\tab Make sure the adapter output switch is set to high. (Later, if you experience audio problems, you can try setting this switch to low.)
\par \pard\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b\ul Recommended Sound Cards
\par \plain\f4\fs20 
\par Dragon Systems has tested and approved the following sound cards and built-in sound systems for compatibility with Dragon NaturallySpeaking:
\par 
\par \pard\li360\fi-360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f6\fs20 \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Sound Blaster 16\plain\f6\fs20\up6 \'e2\plain\f4\fs20  PnP (Creative Labs, Inc.)
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f6\fs20 \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Sound Blaster\plain\f6\fs20\up6 \'e2\plain\f4\fs20  AWE32\plain\f5\fs13\up10 \'99\plain\f4\fs20  PnP (Creative Labs, Inc.)
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f6\fs20 \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Sound Blaster AWE64\plain\f5\fs13\up10 \'99\plain\f4\fs20  PnP (Creative Labs, Inc.)
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f6\fs20 \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Sound Blaster AWE64\plain\f5\fs13\up10 \'99\plain\f4\fs20  Gold PnP (Creative Labs, Inc.)
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f6\fs20 \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Audiotrix\plain\f5\fs13\up10 \'99\plain\f4\fs20  Pro (MediaTrix Peripherals, Inc.)
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f6\fs20 \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Ensoniq\plain\f5\fs13\up10 \'99\plain\f4\fs20  SoundScape\plain\f5\fs13\up10 \'99\plain\f4\fs20  VIVO 90 (must be purchased directly from Ensoniq, Corp.)
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f6\fs20 \tab \plain\f4\fs20 ExpertMedia Med 3240 with OPTi chip set (Expert Media)
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f6\fs20 \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Turtle Beach\plain\f5\fs13\up10 \'99\plain\f4\fs20  Tropez Plus (Turtle Beach Systems)
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f6\fs20 \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Micron Millennia\plain\f5\fs13\up10 \'99\plain\f4\fs20  Transport\plain\f5\fs13\up10 \'99\plain\f4\fs20  XPE (portable computer with built-in audio system)
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b o\plain\f6\fs20 \tab \plain\f4\fs20 Toshiba Tecra\plain\f5\fs13\up10 \'99\plain\f4\fs20  740 CDT (portable computer with built-in audio system)
\par \pard\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20 
\par To use any sound card properly, make sure you turn off the Automatic Gain Control (AGC).
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs20\b Hardware Compatibility List\plain\f4\fs20 
\par Dragon Systems continually tests different sound cards and computers with built-in audio systems for compatibility, and updates the list of recommended hardware accordingly. You can find the most current list of Dragon-certified sound cards and computers on the Dragon Systems Support home page (http://www.naturalspeech.com or http://www.dragonsys.com). 
\par 
\par Sound cards not classified as "Dragon Certified Hardware" may or may not work with Dragon NaturallySpeaking. If you experience problems with a sound card that is not on the list, you can call Technical Support.
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs24\b\ul Troubleshooting
\par \pard\li360\fi-360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20\b 
\par \pard\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20 Dragon NaturallySpeaking maintains an error log (Dragon.log), which is normally located in the installation folder called NatSpeak (usually C:\\NatSpeak). If you need to contact Technical Support, you may be asked to send a copy of this file for problem analysis.
\par 
\par When you use the Audio Setup wizard, Dragon NaturallySpeaking records your voice as you read aloud for the microphone volume test. Results of the test are saved in the Audio.wav file (usually C:\\NatSpeak\\Program). If you need to contact Technical Support about problems with your sound system, you may be asked to send a copy of the Audio.wav and Dragon.log files for analysis.
\par \pard\li360\fi-360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20\b 
\par \pard\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs24\b\ul Tips for DragonDictate Users
\par \pard\li360\fi-360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20\b 
\par \pard\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20 If you have been using DragonDictate, you may find the following tips handy for learning the differences between DragonDictate and Dragon NaturallySpeaking.
\par \pard\li360\fi-360\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20\b 
\par Using Dragon NaturallySpeaking
\par \pard\tx360\tx720\tx990\tx4320\plain\f4\fs20 If you are used to pausing after every word, you may find it takes some time to adjust to speaking continuously. Try closing your eyes while you dictate, or imagine that you are talking to another person.
\par 
\par Dragon NaturallySpeaking has a new set of voice commands. Some commands resemble DragonDictate commands, and some do not. You may find the \plain\f4\fs20\i Dragon NaturallySpeaking Quick Reference\plain\f4\fs20  card useful for learning the new commands.
\par 
\par Dragon NaturallySpeaking does not have separate dictation and command modes. To say a menu or button command, simply say "Click" followed by the name of the menu or command. For example, say "Click File" to open the File menu, or say "Click OK" to activate the OK button.
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs20\b Tuning Recognition Accuracy
\par \plain\f4\fs20 Dragon NaturallySpeaking does not adapt continually to your speech, so it is not mandatory to correct recognition errors as they occur. You can ignore recognition errors, or edit or delete the mistakes in your document without worrying about affecting performance. Dragon NaturallySpeaking adapts only when you use the Train Words dialog box, make corrections in the Correction dialog box, run General Training, or use Vocabulary Builder.
\par 
\par Dragon NaturallySpeaking assumes you pronounce words the way they are spelled. To dictate words that have different written and spoken forms, define dictation shortcuts using Vocabulary Editor.
\par 
\par See the online Help topic, "Improving Recognition Accuracy," for more information about tuning recognition performance.
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs20\b Feature Differences Between DragonDictate and Dragon NaturallySpeaking
\par \plain\f4\fs20 Dragon NaturallySpeaking does not support dictating directly into another application. After dictating in the document window, you can copy the text and paste it into another application window.
\par 
\par Besides dictation shorthands, Dragon NaturallySpeaking does not support creating macros.
\par 
\par In Dragon NaturallySpeaking you can say What Can I Say as you dictate to display all voice commands available in the current context. You can also use Vocabulary Editor to view the entire active dictation vocabulary, including dictation commands and punctuation marks. (You cannot change the names or actions of voice commands, and Dragon NaturallySpeaking does not support the DragonDictate Vocabulary Manager.)
\par 
\par To add new words to the active dictation vocabulary, open the text file containing the words in Dragon NaturallySpeaking, and then use the Find New Words command (Tools menu) to add the words. (You cannot import words from a .ddx file.)
\par 
\par Dragon NaturallySpeaking does not support dictating non-printing keystrokes (for example, F1, Backspace, Delete). Also, you cannot include non-printing keystrokes (for example, Enter) in a dictation shortcut. 
\par 
\par You can use the Switch to Next/Previous Window commands to switch between running applications, but you cannot launch applications by voice.
\par 
\par You can say Undo That to undo the action of the last command, and you can improve recognition of a command by using Train Words, but you cannot correct a misrecognized command.
\par 
\par You cannot move the mouse by voice.
\par 
\par Dragon NaturallySpeaking supports a single user.
\par 
\par \plain\f4\fs20\b Finer Points
\par \plain\f4\fs20 In Dragon NaturallySpeaking, you use the Scratch That command to delete the last word or words you said between pauses. To delete a single word, select the word and say "Delete That."
\par 
\par You do not need to say "apostrophe-ess" to form a possessive, although you can. If you say, for example, "Joe's restaurant," Dragon NaturallySpeaking types the possessive form. If Dragon NaturallySpeaking recognizes a plural as a possessive, try selecting the word and dictating it again so that Dragon NaturallySpeaking can choose the next likely spelling.
\par 
\par You can spell as you dictate by using the alpha-bravo alphabet.
\par 
\par Use natural spelling (the letters of the alphabet) in the Correction dialog box. Letters are recognized more quickly than the alpha-bravo alphabet during correction.
\par 
\par Dragon NaturallySpeaking does not have the Oops command. To view the recognition history, click the black arrow in the document window status bar.
\par 
\par The Dragon NaturallySpeaking document window is similar to WordPad, which is a Microsoft\plain\f6\fs20\up6 \'e2\plain\f4\fs20  Windows\plain\f6\fs20\up6 \'e2\plain\f4\fs20  accessory. For Help on Dragon NaturallySpeaking features that are not speech related, you can look at the WordPad Help.
\par 
\par You may be able to run Dragon NaturallySpeaking and DragonDictate for Windows simultaneously, but not in a hands-free manner. Dragon Systems has not tested this configuration extensively, and does not support it.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par Dragon Systems is a registered trademark, and NaturallySpeaking is a trademark of Dragon Systems, Inc. All other trademarks are of their respective companies. \plain\f6\fs20 \'e3\plain\f4\fs20  1997 Dragon Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
\par }
 